PSSDSummary of my input to the group projectAmelia Fule- a1886839At the beginning of the project, we split the task of making a music player between the three of us. I decided to cover the user accounts and playlist management for the first steps. Essentially, I was to make it so that users could create accounts, edit their details, make playlists and then all that comes with managing those playlists. So, adding and removing songs, uploading/changing the playlist cover image, deleting and creating playlists. And then the storing of all of this information. I first designed and wrote a database for the system which stores the user details, the playlist details, the song details and all links together nicely with keys. View the appendix image in the project folder along with this for reference. I then wrote out the classes needed for my part, and outlined the possible functions. I did have further ideas which I didn’t include due to time constraints but I made sure in designing the class structure and the database that it would all be able to integrate together well and that it is open to extension (especially with those further function ideas that I had) These are all also outlined in the aforementioned appendix.Then after writing the database up in SQLite, I got to work on writing the classes and the function implementation inside of those classes in python. This was a learning experience since I haven’t really used python since 2019 at school. I did really enjoy the formation of the database and then how each it was to call my functions and access the database in the next parts.So once all of these were complete, my group and I came back together (they had each completed their own parts) and we determined what we had to do next, and we settled on using tkinter to design an app interface that we can program using python. For this part I volunteered to do the playlists page, which first shows a list of the playlists, then when you select one, it shows the songs inside of that playlist where there are then buttons you can select to edit say the cover image, delete songs, edit the name of the playlist. I assigned my previous functions to work in this system with a few other things around it so that it works with the buttons and listboxes and stuff. I found using tkinter very challenging, but ultimately interesting. I did leave most of the formatting and looking nice to another group member who made the last part of his contribution that. Once I have got all of the playlist page working (parring one function to play the playlist because I didn’t know how the play function worked as I didn’t write it, I asked another member too, yay team work). We met again as a group and each found one or two things to finish up to polish it up. I decided to (well one fix a bug that popped up in deleting the playlists) and then to create the downloaded songs page, which is basically a list of all the downloaded songs across all accounts not just the logged in user, so that then they can select it and add it to a playlist of theirs. It also includes a search function which enables the user to search the list of songs for one they would like and then add it to the playlist if they wish.

Then there was a lot of basic, polishing up, making sure the comments were good and some final debugging which we all did our own share of.

A brief description of how our project works is that, basically you can download a song, which then will be stored in the database, the user is able to log in or create an account, there's then a playlists page, which presents all of their playlists. They can select a playlist, which takes the current user's id and returns all the playlist with the id as a foreign key, showing a list of the songs and buttons for editing the playlist which I mention earlier. The user is then also able to access an account page and edit their details, which once again all feeds into the database. There's a logout function which resets the current user, and takes them back to the sign in page. There's then also a downloads page, which the user can search to download a new song, and add it to their playlist. Or there is the ability to search all the downloaded songs on the device and add it to which ever playlist (once again these functions all primarily work through the database. The reason it has all the downloaded songs on the device is because if there are multiple accounts on one device, they may have downloaded different songs for their playlists, but then they can access them and put them in their own playlists since they are already downloaded, or won't have to download them again. Then there is the play functionality, so they can play the play list, pause/play a song, skip, go back, shuffle. All of that with the actual song file that is playing.I think we certainly worked well as a group, I do think we could have done better with making sure our parts would work well together as we were writing them. As in, not be so secluded then come in and share but rather keep each other up to date on how processes work and what you’re writing and how each other can use them in what way. Especially because there was a time where one group member basically rewrote half the functions I have written already in the first part for the implementation of the login page. And that could have been a lot of time saved and could have been directed to other areas. Additionally, I feel like some are so stuck on my part your part that they can be inflexible even when its a small syntax bug and insist you fix it. Which I understand, don't get me wrong here not bitter or anything. I guess it's all about learning to handle that, but also to as a group not be so self involved in a project contribution way. It also comes down to that time management of okay there's a bug, is it a quick fix or not if so fix it quickly yourself. If not then it makes sense to tell the person who worked on that part and ask them to. I think this experience helps me to reflect and actually understand these things so Im not repeating them myself, and really come to value taking initiative. I still think we did well, despite some errors in communication. I think we set good achievable goals to work towards each week, and we were good at catching up to review the progress of the project. I guess I really learnt the importance of outlining methods with everyone and sharing the individual tasks progress, so that it isn’t being repeated or unable to work together. 